# 3.1 Using mappings to define kinds of documents
Each document belongs to a type, which in turn belongs to an index. As a logical division of data, you can think of indices as databases and types as tables. For example, the get-together website that we introduced in chapter 2 uses a different type for groups and events because those documents have different structures. Note that if you also had a blog on that website, you might keep blog entries and comments in a separate index because it’s a completely different set of data. codademitran: 1 index gồm nhiều type, 1 type gồm nhiều document, index giống như database, type giống như tables. Như ở Chapter 2, index get-together có 2 type khác nhau là group và event bởi vì document ở 2 type này có cấu trúc khác nhau. Nếu bạn design 1 blog thì blog và comment nên design là 2 type độc lập

Types contain a definition of each field in the mapping. The mapping includes all the fields that might appear in documents from that type and tells Elasticsearch how to index the fields in a document. For example, if a field contains a date, you can define which date format is acceptable. codademitran: Type bao gồm định nghĩa của các filed trong maping. Mapping bao gồm toàn bộ các field xuất hiện trong document và từ đó nó chỉ cho es nên đánh index field đó như thế nào, ví dụ là string thì index kiểu string, nếu là date thì index kiểu date

Types provide only logical separation
With Elasticsearch, there’s no physical separation of documents that have different types. All documents within the same Elasticsearch index, regardless of type, end up in the same set of files belonging to the same shards. In a shard, which is a Lucene index, the name of the type is a field, and all fields from all mappings come together as fields in the Lucene index.
The concept of a type is a layer of abstraction specific to Elasticsearch but not Lucene, which makes it easy for you to have different kinds of documents in the same index. Elasticsearch takes care of separating those documents; for example, by filtering documents belonging to a certain type when you search in that type only.
This approach creates a problem when the same field name occurs in multiple types. To avoid unpredictable results, two fields with the same name should have the same settings; otherwise Elasticsearch might have a hard time figuring out which of the two fields you’re referring to. In the end, both those fields belong to the same Lucene index. For example, if you have a name field in both group and event documents, both should be strings, not one a string and one an integer. This is rarely a problem in real life, but it’s worth remembering to avoid surprises.

In figure 3.1 groups and events are stored in different types. The application can then search in a specific type, such as events. Elasticsearch also allows you to search in multiple types at once or even in all types of an index by specifying only the index name when you search. codademitran: Như hình 3.1 thì group và event được store trong các type khác nhau. ES cho phép search trên all type, 1 type hay nhiều type.

Now that you know how mappings are used in Elasticsearch, let’s look at how you can read the mapping of a type and how you can write one.

Figure 3.1 Using types to divide data in the same index; searches can run in one, multiple, or all types. codademitran: Như hình bên phải có thể thấy, khi search trên all type thì có 2 kết quả, mỗi type có 1 kết quả. Nhưng khi search trên type event thì chỉ có 1 kết quả từ type event