# 3.2.1 String
Strings are the most straightforward: your field should be string if you’re indexing characters. They’re also the most interesting because you have so many options in your mapping for how to analyze them.

Analysis is the process of parsing the text to transform it and break it down into elements to make searches relevant. If it sounds too abstract, don’t worry: chapter 5 explores the concept. But let’s look at the basics now, starting with the document you indexed in listing 3.1:

codademitranstart
Analysis là quá trìn parsing text và chia nhỏ text thành các element nhằm phục vụ chức năng tìm kiếm, chi tiết sẽ được học ở chapter 5
Bên phải là ví dụ index cho kiểu dữ liệu string
codademitranend

startgroup
```
% curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/get-together/new-events/1' -d '{
  "name": "Late Night with Elasticsearch",
  "date": "2013-10-25T19:00"
}'
```
endgroup

With this document indexed, search for the word late in the name field, which is a string:

codademitranstart
Thực hiện tìm kiếm với word "late"
codademitranend

startgroup
```
% curl 'localhost:9200/get-together/new-events/_search?pretty' -d '{
  "query": {
   "query_string": {
     "query": "late"
    }
  }
}'
```
endgroup

The search finds the “Late Night with Elasticsearch” document you indexed in listing 3.1. Elasticsearch connects the strings "late" and "Late Night with Elasticsearch" through analysis. As you can see in figure 3.2, when you index "Late Night with Elasticsearch", the default analyzer lowercases all letters and then breaks the string into words.

Analysis produces four terms: late, night, with, and elasticsearch. The same process is then applied to the query string, but this time, “late” produces the same string: "late". The document (doc1) matches the search because the late term that resulted from the query matches the late term that resulted from the document.

codademitranstart
ES tìm được cụm "Late Night with Elasticsearch". Es kết nối string "late" và cụm "Late Night with Elasticsearch" thông qua Analysis.
Mặc định Analysis sẽ lowercase các kí tự trước khi  break thành word.
codademitranend

DEFINITION A term is a word from the text and is the basic unit for searching. In different contexts, this word can mean different things: it could be a name,
for example, or it could be an IP address. If you want only exact matches on a field, the entire field should be treated as a word.

On the other hand, if you index “latenight,” the default analyzer creates only one term: latenight. Searching for “late” won’t hit doc2 because it doesn’t include the term late.

This analysis process is where the mapping comes into play. You can specify many options for analyzing in your mapping. For example, you can configure analysis to produce terms that are synonyms of your original terms, so queries for synonyms match as well. We’ll dive into the details of analysis in chapter 5, as promised, but for now, let’s look at the index option, which can be set to analyzed (the default), not_analyzed, or no. For example, to set the name field to not_analyzed, your mapping might look like this:

startgroup
```
% curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/get-together/_mapping/new-events' -d '{
  "new-events" : {
    "properties" : {
      "name": {
        "type" : "string",
        "index" : "not_analyzed"
      }
    }
  }
}'
```
endgroup

By default, index is set to analyzed and produces the behavior you saw previously: the analyzer lowercases all letters and breaks your string into words. Use this option when you expect a single matching word to produce a match. For example, if users search for “elasticsearch,” they expect to see “Late Night with Elasticsearch” in the list of results.

Setting index to not_analyzed does the opposite: the analysis process is skipped, and the entire string is indexed as one term. Use this option when you want exact matches, such as when you search for tags. You probably want only “big data” to show up as a result when you search for “big data,” not “data.” Also, you’ll need this for most aggregations, which count terms. If you want to get the most frequent tags, you probably want “big data” to be counted as a single term, not “big” and “data” separately. We’ll explore aggregations in chapter 7.

If you set index to no, indexing is skipped and no terms are produced, so you won’t be able to search on that particular field. When you don’t need to search on a field, this option saves space and decreases the time it takes to index and search. For example, you might store reviews for events. Although storing and showing those reviews is valuable, searching through them might not be. In this case, disable indexing for that field, making the indexing process faster and saving space.

**Check if your query is analyzed when searching in fields that aren’t**
For some queries, such as the query_string you used previously, the analysis process is applied to your search criteria. It’s important to be aware if this is happening; otherwise results might not be as expected.
For example, if you index “Elasticsearch” and it’s not analyzed, it produces the term Elasticsearch. When you query for “Elasticsearch” like this `curl 'localhost:9200/get-together/new-events/_search?q=Elasticsearch'` the URI request is analyzed, and the term elasticsearch (lowercased) is produced. But you don’t have the term elasticsearch in your index; you only have Elasticsearch (with a capital E), so you get no hits. In chapter 4, where we'll discuss searches, you’ll learn which query types analyze the input text and which don’t.

Next, let’s look at how you can index numbers. Elasticsearch provides many core types that can help you deal with numbers, so we’ll refer to them collectively as numeric.