# 3.4 Using predefined fields
Elasticsearch provides a number of predefined fields you can use and configure to add new functionality. These predefined fields are different from the fields you’ve seen so far in three ways:
- Typically, you don’t populate a predefined field; Elasticsearch does it. For example, you can use the _timestamp field to record the date when a document was indexed.
- They uncover field-specific functionality. For example, the _ttl (time to live) field enables Elasticsearch to remove documents after a specified amount of time.
- Predefined field names always begin with an underscore (_). These fields add new metadata to your documents, and Elasticsearch uses this metadata for various features, from storing the original document to storing timestamp information for automatic expiry.

We’ll divide the important predefined fields in the following categories: codademitran: Có thể chia các predefined field thành các loại sau:
- Control how to store and search your documents. _source lets you store the original JSON document as you index it. _all indexes all your fields together. codademitran: Controll việc store và search documnet như: _source và _all
- Identify your documents. These are special fields containing data about where your document was indexed: _uid, _id, _type, _index. codademitran: Dùng làm ID: _uid, _id, _type, _index
- Add new properties to your documents. You can index the size of the original JSON with _size. Similarly, you can index the time it was indexed with _timestamp and make Elasticsearch delete it after a specified amount of time with _ttl. We won’t cover them here because there are often better ways to achieve the same goals (for example, it’s cheaper to expire entire indices, as we’ll see in section 3.6.2) and they might get deprecated in future releases. codademitran: Các thuộc tính common của document: _size, _timestamp, _ttl
- Control the shard where your documents are routed to. These are _routing and parent. We’ll look at _routing in chapter 9, section 9.8, as it’s related to scaling, and at _parent in chapter 8, where we talk about relationships among documents. codademitran: Control việc document được routed như thế nào: _routing, _parent