# 3.5.2 Implementing concurrency control through versioning
If multiple updates are running at the same time, you could encounter concurrency issues. As illustrated in figure 3.4, it’s possible that one update re-indexes the document between the time when the other update got the original document and applied its own changes. With no concurrency control, the second re-index will cancel the changes of the first update.

Fortunately, Elasticsearch supports concurrency control by using a version number for each document. The initially indexed document is version 1. When you re-index it through an update, the version number is set to 2. If the version number was set to 2 by another update in the meantime, it’s a conflict and the current update fails (otherwise it would override the other update like in figure 3.4). You can retry the update and—if there’s no conflict—version will be set to 3.

To see how it works, you’ll replicate a process similar to the one shown in figure 3.5 using the code in listing 3.6:
1 Index a document and then update it (update1).
2 Update1 starts in background and includes a waiting time (sleep).
3 During that sleep, issue another update command (update2) that modifies the document. This change occurs between update1’s fetch of the original document and its re-indexing operation.
4 Instead of canceling the changes of update2, update1 fails because the document is already at version 2. At this point you have the chance to retry update1
and apply the changes in version 3. (See listing 3.6.)

codademitranstart
Trong trường hợp nhiều user cùng thao tác update data thông qua API thì có thể bị lost data
-> es support concurrency bằng cách đánh version cho document mỗi khi có update
Cách hoạt động thì tham khảo flow ở dưới

Đây là flow trong trường hợp không support conccurency
Step 1: user 1 update price = 2
Step 2: user 2 update caption trong khi xử lý update của user 1 vẫn đang chạy nên data gửi về khi user 2 update thì price vẫn đang là 1
Step 3: user 1 đánh index thành công, price = 2
Step 4: user 2 update thành công, caption đc update nhưng price lại = 1
Có thể thấy sau khi kết thúc flow thì data của user 1 bị mất

Đây là flow trong trường hợp có sử dụng version
Step 1: user 1 update price = 1 ở version 1
Step 2: user 2 update caption ở version 1 trong khi xử lý update của user 1 vẫn đang trong quá trình xử lý
Step 3: user 1 update thành công, version của document được tang thành 2
Step 4: xử lý update của user 2 báo lỗi do conflig version
Trong trường hợp này data của user 1 không bị lost

chạy 2 lệnh bên là song song để tái hiện việc conccurency
codademitranend

startgroup
```
% curl -XPOST 'localhost:9200/online-shop/shirts/1/_update' -d '{
  "script": "Thread.sleep(10000); ctx._source.price = 2"
}' &
% curl -XPOST 'localhost:9200/online-shop/shirts/1/_update' -d '{
  "script": "ctx._source.caption = \"Knowing Elasticsearch\""
}'
```
endgroup

Figure 3.5 is a graphical representation of what happens in this listing.

This kind of concurrency control is called _optimistic_ because it allows parallel operations and assumes that conflicts appear rarely, throwing errors when they do appear. This is opposed to _pessimistic_ locking, in which conflicts are prevented in the first place by blocking operations that might cause conflicts.

codademitranstart
Loại concurrency này được gọi là optimistic vì nó cho phép các xử lý chạy song song và giả định rằng việc conflig rất hiếm khi xảy ra
codademitranend

**AUTOMATICALLY RETRYING AN UPDATE WHEN THERE’S A CONFLICT**
When a version conflict appears, you can deal with it in your own application. If it’s an update, you can try applying it again. But you can also make Elasticsearch reapply it for you automatically by setting the retry_on_conflict parameter:

codademitranstart
Để lệnh update tự động retry khi có lỗi concurrency xảy ra thì es có setting retry_on_conflict để sử dụng. Sample như bên phải
codademitranend

startgroup
```
% SHIRTS="localhost:9200/online-shop/shirts"
% curl -XPOST "$SHIRTS/1/_update?retry_on_conflict=3" -d '{
  "script": "ctx._source.price = 2"
}'
```
endgroup

**USING VERSIONS WHEN YOU INDEX DOCUMENTS**
Another way to update a document without using the update API is to index a new one to the same index, type, and ID. This overwrites the existing document and you can still use the version field for concurrency control. To do that, set the version parameter in the HTTP request. The value should be the version you expect the document to have.

For example, if you expect version 3 to be already there, a re-index can look like this:

codademitranstart
Việc chỉ định version khi update document giúp việc update được an toàn hơn. Trong trường hợp này vẫn có thể xảy ra lỗi do conflig version như đề cập ở trên.
Sample ở bên phải
codademitranend

startgroup
```
% curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/online-shop/shirts/1? **version=3** ' -d '{
  "caption": "I Know about Elasticsearch Versioning",
  "price": 5
}'
```
endgroup

The operation will fail with the version conflict exception you saw in listing 3.6 if the current version is different than 3.

With versions, you can index or update your documents safely. Next, let’s look at how you can remove documents.

**Using external versioning**
So far you’ve used Elasticsearch’s internal versioning, which makes Elasticsearch automatically increment the version number with each operation, whether that’s an index or an update. If the source of your data is another data store, maybe you have a versioning system there; for example, one based on timestamps. In that case you might want to keep versions in sync as well as the documents.

To rely on external versioning, you need to add version_type=external to every request in addition to the version number:

codademitranstart
Sử dụng external versioning
Trong trường hợp bạn không muốn version tự tăng sau mỗi lần update, mà thay vào đó bạn muốn tự control version của document thì có thể sử dụng external versioning
Lệnh sample như bên phải
codademitranend

startgroup
```
DOC_URL="localhost:9200/online-shop/shirts/1"
curl -XPUT "$DOC_URL?version=101&version_type=external" -d '{
  "caption": "This time we use external versioning",
  "price": 100
}'
```
endgroup

This will make Elasticsearch accept any version number, as long as it’s higher than the current version, and it doesn’t increment the version number on its own.

codademitranstart
Lệnh này cho phép bạn đánh bất cứ version nào cho document và version sẽ ko tự động tăng
codademitranend