# 3.6.1 Deleting documents
There are a few ways to remove individual documents, and we’ll discuss most of them here:
- Remove a single document by its ID. This is good if you have only one document to delete, provided that you know its ID.
- Remove multiple documents in a single request. If you have multiple individual documents that you want to delete, you can remove them all at once in a bulk request, which is faster than removing one document at a time. We’ll cover bulk deletes in chapter 10, along with bulk indexing and bulk updating.
- Remove a mapping type, with all the documents in it. This effectively searches and removes all the documents you’ve indexed in that type, plus the mapping itself.
- Remove all the documents matching a query. This is similar to removing a mapping type, in the sense that internally a search is run to identify the documents that need to be deleted, only here you can specify any query you want and the matching documents will be deleted.

codademitranstart
Một số cách delete documents
- Remove a single document by its ID: xóa từng document theo ID
- Remove multiple documents in a single request: Truyền nhiều ID lên và xóa trong cùng 1 lần, cái đó gọi là bulk delete, sẽ học ở chapter 10 cùng với bulk indexing và bulk updating
- Remove a mapping type
codademitranend

**REMOVING A SINGLE DOCUMENT**
To remove a single document, you need to send an HTTP DELETE request to its URL; for example:
`% curl -XDELETE 'localhost:9200/online-shop/shirts/1'`

You can also use versioning to manage concurrency with deletes, just as you did while indexing and updating. For example, let’s assume you sold all shirts of a certain type, and you want to remove that document so it doesn’t appear in searches at all. But you might not know at that time if a new shipment arrived and the stock data has been updated. To accomplish this, add a version parameter to your DELETE request, as you did with index and update requests before.

There’s one particularity to deletes when it comes to versioning, though. Once you delete the document, it’s no longer there, so it’s easy for an update to come and recreate it, even if shouldn’t (for example, because that update’s version is lower than the delete version). This is especially a problem if you’re using external versioning because any external version will work on a document that doesn’t exist.

To prevent this problem, Elasticsearch keeps the version of that document around for a while so it can reject updates with a lower version than that of the delete. That time is 60s by default, which should be enough for most use cases, but you can change it by setting index.gc_deletes in elasticsearch.yml or in each index’s settings. We’ll talk more about managing index settings in chapter 11, which is about administration.

**REMOVING A MAPPING TYPE AND DOCUMENTS MATCHING A QUERY**
You can also remove an entire mapping type, which removes the mapping itself plus all the documents indexed in that type. To do that, you provide the type’s URL to the DELETE request:
`% curl -XDELETE 'localhost:9200/online-shop/shirts`

The tricky part about removing types is that the type name is just another field in the documents. All documents of an index end up in the same shards regardless of the mapping type they belong to. When you issue the previous command, Elasticsearch has to query for documents of that type and then remove them. This is an important detail when it comes to performance for removing types versus removing complete indices because removing types typically takes longer and uses more resources.

In the same way that you can query for all documents within a type and delete them, Elasticsearch allows you to specify your own query for documents you want to delete through an API called delete by query. Using the API is similar to running a query, except that the HTTP request is DELETE and the _search endpoint is now _query. For example, to remove all documents that match “Elasticsearch” from the index get-together, you can run this command:
`% curl -XDELETE 'localhost:9200/get-together/_query?q=elasticsearch'`

Similar to regular queries, which we cover in more detail in chapter 4, you can run a delete by query on a specific type, on multiple types, everywhere in an index, in multiple indices, or in all indices. When you search in all indices, be careful when you run a delete by query.

TIP Besides being careful, you can use backups. We talk about backups in chapter 11, which is all about administration.